---
title: 30 by 30
permalink: /30by30
---
With majority of our food imported, local production is important to reduce our reliance on food imports. It can also provide a buffer in the event of supply disruptions. 

> 9 in 10  members of public polled agreed that it is important for us to be able to produce our own food to reduce our reliance on imports.

This is why we’ve set a '**30 by 30’ goal** to produce 30% of our nutritional needs locally by 2030. This is a multi-fold increase — up from less than 10% today.

To overcome our land and resource constraints, some of our farmers have turned to technology and innovative ways to increase production. 

For example, some farms are using indoor multi-storey LED lighting and recirculating aquaculture systems to produce 10 to 15 times more than traditional farms! 

In 2020, our local farms produced about 14% of the vegetables, 8% of the fish, and 28% of the hen eggs we consumed.

To support more local farms to grow and expand, the Singapore Food Agency has introduced funding schemes. For example, a $60 million Agri-Food Cluster Transformation Fund which provides funding support for farms to build and expand their production capabilities and capacities was launched this year. Over $23 million in funding was also awarded for R&D in sustainable urban food production.  

At the same time, we will master plan the Lim Chu Kang area into a high-tech, highly productive and resource-efficient agri-food cluster. We are also looking into the expansion of sustainable fish farming in the deeper Southern Waters of Singapore to boost local fish production.   

Beyond increasing local food production, we are also diversifying our sources of food imports which reduces the risk of reliance on any one single food source. Today, we import from over 170 countries and regions! In addition, we are growing overseas —  helping local companies expand overseas and export food back. 

Together, these three strategies — also known as our three food baskets, help ensure we have a secure supply of safe food in Singapore.